Add AutoGPTQ integration blogpost (#1389)
huggingface/blog: gptq-integration.md

---
title: "Llama 2 is here - get it on Hugging Face" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/159_autogptq_transformers/thumbnail.jpg
authors:
- user: marcsun13
- user: fxmarty
- user: ybelkada
- user: TheBloke
---

# Making the LLMs lighter with AutoGPTQ, transformers and optimum

Large language model have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in understanding and generating human-like text, revolutionizing applications across various domains. However, as these LLMs continue to grow in size and complexity, the demands they place on consumer hardware for training and deployment have become increasingly challenging to meet. 

At Hugging Face 🤗, we strive to make large models as accessible as possible for everyone. In the same spirit as the bitsandbytes collaboration, we integrated in Transformers with the [AutoGPTQ](https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ) library to allow users to quantize and run their models in 8, 4, 3 or even 2-bit precision using GPTQ algorithm ([Frantar et al. 2023](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.17323.pdf)). There is negligible accuracy degradation when quantizating down to 4-bit precision, with comparable inference speed over FP16 for small batch sizes.

> This integration is available both for Nvidia GPUs, and RoCm-powered AMD GPUs.

Reviewer: Maybe we should very briefly explain how this differs from bitsandbytes and that it requires a dataset or sample text to perform the quantization.

## Ressources

This blogpost and release come with several resources to get started with GPTQ quantization:

- [Original Paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.17323.pdf)

> - [Basic usage Google Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1_TIrmuKOFhuRRiTWN94iLKUFu6ZX4ceb?usp=sharing) -  This notebook shows how to quantize your transformers model with GPTQ method, how to do inference, and how to do fine-tuning with the quantized model.

Author: Yes, we need to push the latest release in PyPi but this is not addressed yet, in the worst case we can leave it as it is until the next release (I'll take care of modifying that cell accordingly)

- Transformers integration [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/main_classes/quantization)
- Optimum integration [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/llm_quantization/usage_guides/quantization)

> - The Bloke [repository](https://huggingface.co/TheBloke?sort_models=likes#models) with compatible GPTQ models.

Author: Ahh good point, I think that currently this metadata is stored nowhere unless you use the transformers API to quantize the model: https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/main/src/transformers/utils/quantization_config.py#L373 as that field should be serialized. For weights that are under thebloke org, I think users should look into the README (which is not 100% convenient) but for future models that are pushed on the Hub it is possible to retrieve which dataset has been used for quantizing the model: https://huggingface.co/marcsun13/opt-350m-gptq-4bit/blob/main/config.json#L31

> ## **A gentle summary of GPTQ paper**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **A gentle summary of the GPTQ paper**
```

> Quantization methods are mostly contained into two categories: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quantization methods usually belong into one of two categories: 
```

The benefits of this scheme are twofold:

- Memory savings close to x4 for int4 quantization, as the dequantization happens iteratively close to the compute unit in a fused kernel, and not in the GPU global memory.
- Potential speedups thanks to the time saved on data communication due to the lower bitwidth used for weights.

The GPTQ paper tackles the layer-wise compression problem: 

Given a layer $l$ with weight matrix $W_{l}$ and layer input $X_{l}$, we want to find a quantized version of the weight $\hat{W}_{l}$ to minimize the mean squared error (MSE):

${\hat{W}_{l}}^{*} = argmin_{\hat{W_{l}}} \|W_{l}X-\hat{W}_{l}X\|^{2}_{2}$

Once this is solved per layer, a solution to the global problem can be obtained by combining the layer-wise solutions. 

In order to solve this layer-wise compression problem, the author uses the Optimal Brain Quantization framework ([Frantar et al 2022](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.11580)). The OBQ method starts from the observation that the above equation can be written as the sum of the squared errors, over each row of $W_{l}$.

$ \sum_{i=0}^{d_{row}} \|W_{l[i,:]}X-\hat{W}_{l[i,:]}X\|^{2}_{2} $

> This means that we can quantize each row independently. This is called per-channel quantization. For each row $W_{l[i,:]}$, OBQ quantize one weight at a time while always updating all not-yet-quantized weights, in order to compensate for the error incurred by quantizing a single weight. The update on selected weights has a closed-form formula, utilizing Hessian matrices. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that we can quantize each row independently. This is called per-channel quantization. For each row $W_{l[i,:]}$, OBQ quantizes one weight at a time while always updating all not-yet-quantized weights, in order to compensate for the error incurred by quantizing a single weight. The update on selected weights has a closed-form formula, utilizing Hessian matrices. 
```

> The GPTQ paper improves this framework by introducing a set of optimization that reduces the complexity of the quantization algorithm while retaining the accuracy of the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GPTQ paper improves this framework by introducing a set of optimizations that reduces the complexity of the quantization algorithm while retaining the accuracy of the model.
```

Compared to OBQ, the quantization step itself is also faster with GPTQ: it takes 2 GPU-hours to quantize a BERT model (336M) with OBQ, whereas with GPTQ, a Bloom model (176B) can be quantized in less than 4 GPU-hours. 

To learn more about the exact algorithm and the different benchmarks on perplexity and speedups, check out the original [paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.17323.pdf).

> ## **AutoGPTQ library - the one-stop library for efficiently leveraging GPTQ method for LLMs**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## AutoGPTQ library – the one-stop library for efficiently leveraging GPTQ for LLMs
```

> The AutoGPTQ library enables users to quantize 🤗 Transformers models using the GPTQ method. While parallel community efforts as [GPTQ-for-LLaMa](https://github.com/qwopqwop200/GPTQ-for-LLaMa), [Exllama](https://github.com/turboderp/exllama) and [llama.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp/) implement quantization methods as GPTQ with optimizations strictly for Llama, AutoGPTQ gained popularity through its smooth coverage of a wide range of transformers architectures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AutoGPTQ library enables users to quantize 🤗 Transformers models using the GPTQ method. While parallel community efforts such as [GPTQ-for-LLaMa](https://github.com/qwopqwop200/GPTQ-for-LLaMa), [Exllama](https://github.com/turboderp/exllama) and [llama.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp/) implement quantization methods strictly for the Llama architecture, AutoGPTQ gained popularity through its smooth coverage of a wide range of transformer architectures.
```

> Thus, to make running large models through transformers even more accessible, we decided to provide an API natively in 🤗 Transformers to quantize and run models using AutoGPTQ. For now, we only integrated the most common optimization options such as CUDA kernels. For more advanced options such as Triton kernels or fused-attention compatibility, check out directly the [AutoGPTQ](https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ) library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the AutoGPTQ library has a larger coverage of transformers models, we decided to provide an integrated 🤗 Transformers API to make LLM quantization more accessible to everyone. At this time we have integrated the most common optimization options, such as CUDA kernels. For more advanced options like Triton kernels or fused-attention compatibility, check out the [AutoGPTQ](https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ) library.
```

Question: if you install AutoGPTQ from source yourself, do you have access to the advanced features using the same API, or do you have to run inference differently?

Author: It should be the same API as the advanced features (here I mean using exllama kernels for faster inference) should be enabled by default: https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/main/src/transformers/utils/quantization_config.py#L367

Author: Let me know if this is unclear or if we should clarify it more

## Native support of GPTQ models in 🤗 Transformers

> After [installing AutoGPTQ library](https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ#quick-installation) and optimum library, running GPTQ models in Transformers is now as simple as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After [installing the AutoGPTQ library](https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ#quick-installation) and `optimum` (`pip install optimum`), running GPTQ models in Transformers is now as simple as:
```

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM

model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("TheBloke/Llama-2-7b-Chat-GPTQ", torch_dtype=torch.float16, device_map="auto")
```

Check out the Transformers [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/main_classes/quantization) to learn more about all the features. 

> This integration through AutoGPTQ has many advantages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our AutoGPTQ integration has many advantages:
```

- Quantized models are serializable and can be shared on the Hub.
- GPTQ drastically reduces the memory requirements to run LLMs, while the inference latency is on par with FP16 inference.
- AutoGPTQ supports Exllama kernels for a wide range of architectures.
- The integration comes with native RoCm support for AMD GPUs.
- Finetuning with PEFT is available.

> You can check on the Hub if your favorite model has already been quantized. TheBloke, one of Hugging Face top contributor, has quantized a lot of models with AutoGPTQ library and shared them on the Hugging Face Hub. We worked together to make sure that these repositories will work out of the box with our integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check on the Hub if your favorite model has already been quantized. TheBloke, one of Hugging Face top contributors, has quantized a lot of models with AutoGPTQ and shared them on the Hugging Face Hub. We worked together to make sure that these repositories will work out of the box with our integration.
```

> Below is a sample of benchmark for the batch size = 1 case. The benchmark is done on a single NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB GPU. We use a prompt length of 512, and generate exactly 512 new tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a benchmark sample for the batch size = 1 case. The benchmark was run on a single NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB GPU. We used a prompt length of 512, and generated exactly 512 new tokens. The first row is the unquantized `fp16` baseline, while the other rows show memory consumption and performance using different AutoGPTQ kernels.
```

| gptq  | act_order | bits | group_size | kernel            | Load time (s) | Per-token latency (ms) | Throughput (tokens/s) | Peak memory (MB) |
|-------|-----------|------|------------|-------------------|---------------|------------------------|-----------------------|------------------|
| False | None      | None | None       | None              | 26.0          | 36.958                 | 27.058                | 29152.98         |
| True  | False     | 4    | 128        | exllama           | 36.2          | 33.711                 | 29.663                | 10484.34         |
| True  | False     | 4    | 128        | autogptq-cuda-old | 36.2          | 46.44                  | 21.53                 | 10344.62         |

A more comprehensive reproducible benchmark is available [here](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum/tree/main/tests/benchmark#gptq-benchmark).

> ## Quantizing models **through Optimum library**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Quantizing models **with the Optimum library**
```

> To integrate seemingly AutoGPTQ into Transformers library, we exposed a minimalist version of the AutoGPTQ API in [Optimum library](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum), the Hugging Face toolkit for training and inference optimization. By doing so, it is easy to integrate with Transformers through this external library, while letting people use the Optimum API if they want to quantize their own models! Check out the Optimum [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/llm_quantization/usage_guides/quantization) if you want to quantize your own LLMs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To seamlessly integrate AutoGPTQ into Transformers, we used a minimalist version of the AutoGPTQ API that is available in [Optimum](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum), Hugging Face's toolkit for training and inference optimization. By following this approach, we achieved easy integration with Transformers, while allowing people to use the Optimum API if they want to quantize their own models! Check out the Optimum [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/llm_quantization/usage_guides/quantization) if you want to quantize your own LLMs. 
```

> Quantizing 🤗 Transformers models with GPTQ method can be done in a few lines:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quantizing 🤗 Transformers models with the GPTQ method can be done in a few lines:
```

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer, GPTQConfig

model_id = "facebook/opt-125m"
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_id)
quantization_config = GPTQConfig(bits=4, dataset = "c4", tokenizer=tokenizer)

model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(model_id, device_map="auto", quantization_config=quantization_config)
```

> One major downside is that quantizing a model takes a long time. Note that for a 175B model, at least 4 GPU-hours are required. However, as mentioned above, many GPTQ models are already available on the Hugging Face Hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quantizing a model may take a long time. Note that for a 175B model, at least 4 GPU-hours are required. However, as mentioned above, many GPTQ models are already available on the Hugging Face Hub.
```

Maybe this is also a good place to mention that people can run quantization on their own datasets and domains if appropriate.

Author: Thanks a lot, added more details in [ba8400e](https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/1389/commits/ba8400ecd8eeae3307727533ca2122f8b6a8b96f), let me know if I should clarify more

## Running GPTQ models through ***Text-Generation-Inference***

> In parallel to the integration of GPTQ in Transformers, GPTQ support was added in the [Text-Generation-Inference library](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference) (TGI), aimed at serving large language models with features as dynamic batching, paged attention and flash attention, that can now be used along GPTQ for a [wide range of architectures](https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/main/en/supported_models).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In parallel to the integration of GPTQ in Transformers, GPTQ support was added to the [Text-Generation-Inference library](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference) (TGI), aimed at serving large language models in production. GPTQ can now be used alongside features such as dynamic batching, paged attention and flash attention for a [wide range of architectures](https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/main/en/supported_models).
```

> This integration allows for example to serve a 70b model on a single A100-80GB GPU, which is not possible using a fp16 checkpoint that exceeds the GPU available memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, this integration allows to serve a 70b model on a single A100-80GB GPU! This is not possible using a fp16 checkpoint as it exceeds the available GPU memory.
```

You can find out more about the usage of GPTQ in TGI in [the documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/main/en/basic_tutorials/preparing_model#quantization).

> Note that the kernel integrated in TGI does not scale very well with larger batch sizes, and although the approach saves memory, slowdowns are expected at larger batch size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the kernel integrated in TGI does not scale very well with larger batch sizes. Although this approach saves memory, slowdowns are expected at larger batch sizes.
```

## **Fine-tune quantized models with PEFT**

> You can not train native quantized model. However, by leveraging the PEFT library, you can for example train adapters on top of them. To do that, we freeze all the layers of the quantized model and we add the adapters that are trainable. Here are some examples on how to use PEFT with GPTQ model : [colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1VoYNfYDKcKRQRor98Zbf2-9VQTtGJ24k?usp=sharing) and [finetuning](https://gist.github.com/SunMarc/dcdb499ac16d355a8f265aa497645996) script. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can not further train a quantized model using the regular methods. However, by leveraging the PEFT library, you can train adapters on top! To do that, we freeze all the layers of the quantized model and add the trainable adapters. Here are some examples on how to use PEFT with a GPTQ model: [colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1VoYNfYDKcKRQRor98Zbf2-9VQTtGJ24k?usp=sharing) and [finetuning](https://gist.github.com/SunMarc/dcdb499ac16d355a8f265aa497645996) script. 
```

## Room for improvement

> As is, GPTQ already brings impressive benefits at a small cost in the quality of prediction. There are however still room for improvement, both in the quantization technique and kernel implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our AutoGPTQ integration already brings impressive benefits at a small cost in the quality of prediction. There is still room for improvement, both in the quantization techniques and the kernel implementations.
```

> First, while AutoGPTQ integrates (to the best of our knowledge) with the most performant W4A16 kernel (weights as int4, activations as fp16) namely from the [exllama implementation](https://github.com/turboderp/exllama), there is good chance the kernel can still be improved. There have been other promising implementations [from Kim et al.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2211.10017.pdf) and from [MIT Han Lab](https://github.com/mit-han-lab/llm-awq) that appear to be promising. Moreover, from internal benchmarks, there appears to still be no open-source performant W4A16 kernel written in Triton, which could be a direction to explore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, while AutoGPTQ integrates (to the best of our knowledge) with the most performant W4A16 kernel (weights as int4, activations as fp16) from the [exllama implementation](https://github.com/turboderp/exllama), there is a good chance that the kernel can still be improved. There have been other promising implementations [from Kim et al.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2211.10017.pdf) and from [MIT Han Lab](https://github.com/mit-han-lab/llm-awq) that appear to be promising. Moreover, from internal benchmarks, there appears to still be no open-source performant W4A16 kernel written in Triton, which could be a direction to explore.
```

> On the quantization side, let’s emphasize again that this method quantizes only the weights. There have been other approaches proposed for LLM quantization that can quantize both weights and activations at a small cost in prediction quality, as [LLM-QAT](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.17888.pdf) where a mixed int4/int8 scheme can be used, as well as quantization of the key-value cache. One of the strong advantage of such technique is the ability to use actual integer arithmetic for the compute, with e.g. [Nvidia Tensor Cores supporting int8 compute](https://www.nvidia.com/content/dam/en-zz/Solutions/Data-Center/a100/pdf/nvidia-a100-datasheet-us-nvidia-1758950-r4-web.pdf). However, to the best of our knowledge, there are no open-source W4A8 quantization kernel available, but this may well be [an interesting direction to explore](https://www.qualcomm.com/news/onq/2023/04/floating-point-arithmetic-for-ai-inference-hit-or-miss).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the quantization side, let’s emphasize again that this method only quantizes the weights. There have been other approaches proposed for LLM quantization that can quantize both weights and activations at a small cost in prediction quality, such as [LLM-QAT](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.17888.pdf) where a mixed int4/int8 scheme can be used, as well as quantization of the key-value cache. One of the strong advantages of this technique is the ability to use actual integer arithmetic for the compute, with e.g. [Nvidia Tensor Cores supporting int8 compute](https://www.nvidia.com/content/dam/en-zz/Solutions/Data-Center/a100/pdf/nvidia-a100-datasheet-us-nvidia-1758950-r4-web.pdf). However, to the best of our knowledge, there are no open-source W4A8 quantization kernels available, but this may well be [an interesting direction to explore](https://www.qualcomm.com/news/onq/2023/04/floating-point-arithmetic-for-ai-inference-hit-or-miss).
```

> On the kernel side as well, as the benchmarks above show, it remains open to design performant W4A16 kernel for larger batch sizes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the kernel side as well, designing performant W4A16 kernels for larger batch sizes remains an open challenge.
```

### Supported models

> For now, only large language models with a decoder or encoder only architecture are supported. Even if it seems a little bit restrictive, it encompasses most of the state of art LLMs such as Llama, OPT, GPT-Neo, GPT-NeoX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this initial implementation, only large language models with a decoder or encoder only architecture are supported. This may sound a bit restrictive, but it encompasses most state of the art LLMs such as Llama, OPT, GPT-Neo, GPT-NeoX.
```

> Support for very large vision, audio, and multi-modal models are currently not supported yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Very large vision, audio, and multi-modal models are currently not supported.
```

Reviewer: Maybe end with a brief conclusion, or links to all the resources and colabs.

Author: Makes sense, added a conclusion section here:  8a3a67e

---

> title: "Making LLMs lighter with AutoGPTQ, transformers" 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Making LLMs lighter with AutoGPTQ and transformers" 
```

thumbnail: /blog/assets/159_autogptq_transformers/thumbnail.jpg
authors:
- user: marcsun13
- user: fxmarty
- user: PanEa
  guest: true
- user: qwopqwop
  guest: true
- user: ybelkada
- user: TheBloke
  guest: true
---

> # Making LLMs lighter with AutoGPTQ, transformers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Making LLMs lighter with AutoGPTQ and transformers
```

🤗 Hugging Face's core mission is to _democratize good machine learning_, and this includes making large models as accessible as possible for everyone. In the same spirit as our [bitsandbytes collaboration](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes), we have just integrated the [AutoGPTQ](https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ) library in Transformers, making it possible for users to quantize and run models in 8, 4, 3, or even 2-bit precision using the GPTQ algorithm ([Frantar et al. 2023](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.17323.pdf)). There is negligible accuracy degradation with 4-bit quantization, with inference speed comparable to the `fp16` baseline for small batch sizes. Note that GPTQ method slightly differs from post-training quantization methods proposed by bitsandbytes as it requires to pass a calibration dataset.

This integration is available both for Nvidia GPUs, and RoCm-powered AMD GPUs.

> ## Resources

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a brief table of contents before

Author: Done in [dab7d37](https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/1389/commits/dab7d37c2d9fc14ba6c8ee61500c38ca492cb5be)

This blogpost and release come with several resources to get started with GPTQ quantization:

- [Original Paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.17323.pdf)

> - [Basic usage Google Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1_TIrmuKOFhuRRiTWN94iLKUFu6ZX4ceb?usp=sharing) -  This notebook shows how to quantize your transformers model with GPTQ method, how to do inference, and how to do fine-tuning with the quantized model.

Reviewer 2: This colab is in Google Drive, worth adding to https://github.com/huggingface/blog/tree/main/notebooks instead

Author: the notebook requires some final minor tweaks that are easier to directly edit on drive, once those are addressed, I will open a follow up PR to change the link to hf/notebooks link.

- Transformers integration [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/main_classes/quantization)
- Optimum integration [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/llm_quantization/usage_guides/quantization)
- The Bloke [repositories](https://huggingface.co/TheBloke?sort_models=likes#models) with compatible GPTQ models.

## **A gentle summary of the GPTQ paper**

Quantization methods usually belong into one of two categories: 

> 1. Post-Training Quantization (PTQ): We quantize a pre-trained model using low resources, such as a few samples and a few hours of computation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Post-Training Quantization (PTQ): We quantize a pre-trained model using a few resources, such as a couple of samples and a few hours of computation. 
```

Reviewer: In the case of GPTQ we typically pass a dataset for calibration (or a few samples provided by the user), so not sure how to formulate this sentence in a general way. Maybe something like:

```suggestion
1. Post-Training Quantization (PTQ): We quantize a pre-trained model using moderate resources, such as a calibration dataset and a few hours of computation.
```

2. Quantization-Aware Training (QAT): Quantization is performed before training or further fine-tuning. 

> The GPTQ falls into the PTQ category and this is particularly interesting for massive models, for which full model training or even fine-tuning can be very expensive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GPTQ falls into the PTQ category and this is particularly interesting for massive models, for which full model training or even fine-tuning can be very expensive.
```

Specifically, GPTQ adopts a mixed int4/fp16 quantization scheme where weights are quantized as int4 while activations remain in float16. During inference, weights are dequantized on the fly and the actual compute is performed in float16.

The benefits of this scheme are twofold:

> - Memory savings close to x4 for int4 quantization, as the dequantization happens iteratively close to the compute unit in a fused kernel, and not in the GPU global memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Memory savings close to x4 for int4 quantization, as the dequantization happens close to the compute unit in a fused kernel, and not in the GPU global memory.
```

I don't fully understand the meaning of `iteratively close`, feel free to keep it or clarify if it's important :)

## Native support of GPTQ models in 🤗 Transformers

After [installing the AutoGPTQ library](https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ#quick-installation) and `optimum` (`pip install optimum`), running GPTQ models in Transformers is now as simple as:

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM

model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("TheBloke/Llama-2-7b-Chat-GPTQ", torch_dtype=torch.float16, device_map="auto")
```

Check out the Transformers [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/main_classes/quantization) to learn more about all the features. 

Our AutoGPTQ integration has many advantages:

- Quantized models are serializable and can be shared on the Hub.
- GPTQ drastically reduces the memory requirements to run LLMs, while the inference latency is on par with FP16 inference.
- AutoGPTQ supports Exllama kernels for a wide range of architectures.
- The integration comes with native RoCm support for AMD GPUs.

> - Finetuning with PEFT is available.

Reviewer: Maybe link to the later section in the post.

Author: Done in [dab7d37](https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/1389/commits/dab7d37c2d9fc14ba6c8ee61500c38ca492cb5be)

## Quantizing models **with the Optimum library**

To seamlessly integrate AutoGPTQ into Transformers, we used a minimalist version of the AutoGPTQ API that is available in [Optimum](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum), Hugging Face's toolkit for training and inference optimization. By following this approach, we achieved easy integration with Transformers, while allowing people to use the Optimum API if they want to quantize their own models! Check out the Optimum [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/llm_quantization/usage_guides/quantization) if you want to quantize your own LLMs. 

Quantizing 🤗 Transformers models with the GPTQ method can be done in a few lines:

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer, GPTQConfig

model_id = "facebook/opt-125m"
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_id)
quantization_config = GPTQConfig(bits=4, dataset = "c4", tokenizer=tokenizer)

model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(model_id, device_map="auto", quantization_config=quantization_config)
```

> Quantizing a model may take a long time. Note that for a 175B model, at least 4 GPU-hours are required if one uses a large dataset (e.g. `"c4"``). Note that one can quantize a model with their own dataset and domains if appropriate. In addition, as mentioned above, many GPTQ models are already available on the Hugging Face Hub, which bypasses the need to quantize a model yourself in most usecases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quantizing a model may take a long time. Note that for a 175B model, at least 4 GPU-hours are required if one uses a large dataset (e.g. `"c4"``). As mentioned above, many GPTQ models are already available on the Hugging Face Hub, which bypasses the need to quantize a model yourself in most use cases. Nevertheless, you can also quantize a model using your own dataset appropriate for the particular domain you are working on.
```

## Running GPTQ models through ***Text-Generation-Inference***

In parallel to the integration of GPTQ in Transformers, GPTQ support was added to the [Text-Generation-Inference library](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference) (TGI), aimed at serving large language models in production. GPTQ can now be used alongside features such as dynamic batching, paged attention and flash attention for a [wide range of architectures](https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/main/en/supported_models).

> As an example, this integration allows to serve a 70b model on a single A100-80GB GPU! This is not possible using a fp16 checkpoint as it exceeds the available GPU memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an example, this integration allows to serve a 70B model on a single A100-80GB GPU! This is not possible using a fp16 checkpoint as it exceeds the available GPU memory.
```

On the kernel side as well, designing performant W4A16 kernels for larger batch sizes remains an open challenge.

### Supported models

In this initial implementation, only large language models with a decoder or encoder only architecture are supported. This may sound a bit restrictive, but it encompasses most state of the art LLMs such as Llama, OPT, GPT-Neo, GPT-NeoX.

Very large vision, audio, and multi-modal models are currently not supported.

## Conclusion and final words

> In this blogpost we have presented the integration of the [AutoGPTQ library](https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ) in Transformers, making it possible to quantize LLMs with the GPTQ method to make them more accessible for anyone in the community to build exciting tools and applications with LLMs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blogpost we have presented the integration of the [AutoGPTQ library](https://github.com/PanQiWei/AutoGPTQ) in Transformers, making it possible to quantize LLMs with the GPTQ method to make them more accessible for anyone in the community and empower them to build exciting tools and applications with LLMs. 
```

---
title: "Making LLMs lighter with AutoGPTQ and transformers" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/159_autogptq_transformers/thumbnail.jpg
authors:
- user: marcsun13
- user: fxmarty
- user: PanEa
  guest: true
- user: qwopqwop
  guest: true
- user: ybelkada
- user: TheBloke
  guest: true
---

# Making LLMs lighter with AutoGPTQ and transformers

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

```
